Tuesday 24-04-30 (April 30)
142 total hours | 1026 videos | 106 days | 6 outside hours
;
I forgot to do my mid month check in. April was a worse month than March in regards to hitting my daily goal. I did not cross the 150 hour threshold in April like I had hoped to. I'm 8 hours shy of the Intermediate stage. I consumed a total of 34 hours and 26 minutes of Spanish during April but only hit my daily goal 15 days. There were a few days that I logged over 5 hours and many days of only watching 5 - 10 minutes. 
I spent a lot more time consuming podcasts this month (6 hours). I've started with Cuentame, which I think currently has about 20 hours of content.  I plan to listen through Cuentame twice and then moving on to a more upper-beginner/lower-intermediate podcast. 

My motivation has been waning quite a bit for the last two months. The beginner videos have started to feel like quite a slog. I feel fully burnt out on whiteboard videos / older content and there are some hosts that I don't seem to vibe with very well. Not due to them being untalented or not a good host, but I think the beginner level delivery makes it more difficult for me to pay attention than other hosts. I'm assuming that will probably change with the intermediate videos. Thankfully, I'm now reaching a steady trickle of intermediate videos which are substanitially more interesting. The pace is much quicker and I'm noticing that there is latency in my comprehension. My brain isn't trying to translate yet but I've noticed that my understanding of the sentence usually "clicks" into place halfway through the following sentence. This drops my comprehension from 90% to probably somewhere closer to 70-80%. From a purist perspective this isn't ideal but because I'm much more interested in the content I'm actively watching/paying more attention than the videos where my brain is definitely unfocused and wandering. 

As a sidenote, I've read a lot of threads on Reddit about the crossover from Beginner to Intermediate and how many people experience their brain trying to translate for them again. I mentioned this last month but I wonder if I haven't arrived at that point yet or if my brain has given up on trying to translate language I don't understand since Spanish is my third language. I'm a bit curious if there is research on the 'translating' stages of acquiring a second language vs a third or fourth.

150 hours is the official start of the Intermediate stage so it's quite likely that I just haven't moved deep enough into the intermediate videos for the translating stage to restart. I'm going to try to pay attention to that specifically over the course of this next month.

I'm hesitant to set any goals for May since my last two goals have failed. However, in the spirit of progress I'm just going to keep a low goal of at least 1 hour per day on average and finishing one full listen through of Cuentame. Those both seem doable.